java c
CHEM252
Experiment 1 – 2023
Bomb Calorimetry
Chemicals used:Benzoic AcidDescription: white   solidRisk: eye, skin and respiratory tract   irritant,   harmful   if   ingestedPrecautions: avoid contact with the skinDisposal:    solid waste container provided.NaphthaleneDescription: white   solidRisk: flammable, harmful by ingestion,   inhalation and skin contact.   Eye   irritantPrecautions: avoid   contact   with   skinDisposal: solid   waste   container   provided.General Hazards:◆   In this   experiment, you will work with   a high-pressure   bomb   calorimeter.      Always   fire   the   bomb with it firmly held in the screened, clamp holder on the bench. It is important that the   bomb   is   correctly   assembled   with   the   heavy   locking   ring   which   holds   in   the   bomb   head   assembly, correctly seated. You must obtain a   demonstrator’s   signature twice:1) before you pressurise the bomb, to ensure   that   the   bomb   head   is   correctly   seated,   and2) after you load the bomb into   the calorimeter to   ensure   there   are   no   leaks.◆   When the experimental run is completed   and   the   bomb   is   removed   from   the   calorimeter,   it   is   still   under   high   internal   pressure. The   pressure   is   released   through   finger   grip   rotation   of the knurled knob on the release valve. Only then can the bomb be disassembled.
1. IntroductionIn   this   experiment   the   heat   of   combustion   of   naphthalene   is   determined   by   rapidly   burning   a known   mass   of sample   in   oxygen,   under   pressure,   in   a   heavy   steel   vessel   (bomb).   From   the   measured   heat   of   combustion   other   thermodynamic   quantities   are   calculated.   The   heat   of   combustion,   as   determined   with   an   oxygen   bomb   calorimeter,   may   be   defined   as   the   heat   liberated   by   complete   combustion   of   a   substance,   with   oxygen,   in   an   enclosed   vessel   of   constant   volume.    In      the    reaction    the    substance    and    the    oxygen    are    initially    at    the    same   temperature, the   products   of   the   combustion   are   cooled   to   within   a   few   degrees   of   the   initial temperature, and the water vapour formed is condensed to liquid.The   calorimetric   procedure   involves   burning   a   weighed   sample   in   the   oxygen-filled   bomb   submerged in a measured quantity of   water, all held within a thermally insulated chamber. The   rise in water temperature resulting from combustion of   the sample can be used to calculate the amount   of   heat   liberated.The bomb is   filled with oxygen under high   pressure,   and   the   combustion   reaction   takes   place   with explosive violence although there is no   external   evidence   of such   a reaction.   The   heat   of   combustion   causes the temperature to rise   very   rapidly,   with   a   corresponding   increase   in   gas pressure.   The   increased   pressure   is   reduced   quickly   as   heat   is   dissipated   by the   bomb   to   the   surrounding medium, but the cooling rate is so much   slower than   the heating   rate   that   internal   pressures remain high.   Since its invention, the oxygen bomb   calorimeter has   been   accepted   as   the   standard   for   accurate   measurement   of heats   of combustion   despite   mechanical   problems   imposed by this condition.
2.   Theory
2.1 CalibrationThe   combined   heat   capacity   of the   calorimeter   is   determined   by burning   a   known   weight   of   benzoic    acid    (heat    of    combustion    -26.435    kJ    g-1)    which      is      the      internationally      accepted   laboratory   standard   for   bomb   calorimetry.   A   sufficient   number   of calibration   runs   is   carried   out   so   that   consistent   values   for   the   heat   capacity   of   calorimeter   is   obtained.
2.2 Calculation of △T for calorimetry   experimentsWhen determining ΔT for an experiment, the effect of   background heat exchanges between   the   bomb    and    the    surroundings      must      be      compensated      for      by      extrapolating      from      the      linear   temperature-time   change   before   and   after   the   main   temperature   rise   (e.g.   you   will   need   to   mathematically determine ΔT and the associated uncertainty).
A numerical   calculation   can be   made by identifying   3   key   time   points   (a,   b,   and   c)   and   their   associated temperatures (Ta   – Tc, °C) from your calorimetry plot:
•         a = time of   firing
•       b = time when temperature reaches 63.2%   of   the   total   rise   (This   value   is   calculated using the rate constant of   the exponential curve observed after firing   and   corresponds to   the   exponential   halfway   point   of   the   rise   based   on   integral   calculus, which   is
beyond   the   scope   of   this   course).
•       c = time   at   beginning   of   period   when   the   rate   of   temperature   change   is   linear
You   will   also   need   to   calculate   the   following   rates   of   change   of   temperature:
•       r1   = the   rate   of   change   of   temperature   during   the   5   minutes   before   firing.
•       r2   = the   rate   of   change   of   temperature   during   the   5   minutes   after   time   c.To determine these parameters from your data, use the   exported   .CSV   file   to   plot   temperature   vs time graph for each experiment (Figure   1). See   6.2 in the   laboratory manual for   instructions   on how to plot your   data.You will need to   fit two   linear   lines   to   your   data   to   obtain   r1    and   r2   .   See   6.5   in   the   laboratory   manual for instructions on how to split the data into two series   and then   6.3   and   6.4   for how to   fit    linear    regression    to    each    set    of   points    and    conduct    regression    analysis    to      obtain    the   uncertainty in these extrapolated parameters.
The   parameters   can   then   be   read   from   the   fitted   line   equations   obtained   from   the   regression   analysis.
Figure   1: Determination   of   parameters   from   bomb   calorimetry   experimental   data.
The temperature rise (ΔT) is given by equation (1) with parameters   obtained   as   illustrated   in   Figure   1.
ΔT = Tc    - Ta    - r1(b-a) - r2(c-b)                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)
2.3 Calculation of heat capacity of water   using   benzoic acid   calibration.Note:•      subscript. c, e.g. mc, indicates this value   refers to the calibration   species   e.g. benzoic   acid•      subscript. s, e.g. ms, indicates the   sample   e.g. naphthalene.
The energy (in   J) liberated   by combustion of   mc g   benzoic acid,   using lc cm offuse   wire   burned,   is:
qc = 26.435×   103 mc   +   9.6   lc                                                                                                                                                                                                (2)
The energy liberated is absorbed by the water so that:
qc =   ΔTc   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)


where ∆   Tc   is the temperature rise and   C is the heat capacity of   the water and bomb system.
2.4   Heat   of   combustion
This   determined   C   can   then   be   used   to   determine   the   total   energy   of   combustion   of   your reaction. For a temperature rise ∆   Ts   :
qs =   ∆   TsC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (4)
The    total    energy      of    combustion      can      then      be      separated      into      the      naphthalene      and      wire   components:
qs = qs(naphthalene) + qs(wire)
qs =   -∆U   ms +   9.6   ls                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (5)       
Where   ∆   U   is   the   heat   of   combustion   of   naphthalene   in   J   g-1, ms   is   the   mass   of   the   naphthalene sample in g, and ls   is the   length of   the   fuse wire burned.
The   heat   of combustion   is   determined   for   samples   of naphthalene,   i.e.   the   change   in   internal   energy ∆   U   for the reaction:
C   10H8(s) +   12O2   (g) →   10CO2   (g) + 4H2O (l)                                                                                                    (6)
The enthalpy change for the reaction at constant pressure is:
∆H   = ∆U   +   p∆   V                                                                                                                                                                                                    (7)   
where   ∆V   is   the volume   change   for the reaction   carried   out   at   constant pressure.   At   constant   temperature,   T, and assuming ideal gas behaviour:
p∆   V   = ∆nRT                                                                                                                                                                                              (8)   
where ∆n is the change in the mole number   for   the gases only   involved   in the reaction   (i.e.   the   number   of   moles   of   gaseous   products   minus   the   number   of   moles   of   gaseous   reactants).   Combination of   equations (7) and (8) gives the   enthalpy of   combustion   at   temperature   T.   To   a   good   approximation,   the   enthalpy   of combustion   calculated   in   this   way   can   be   equated   with the enthalpy of combustion at 298 K,   i.e.   ΔCH298.




2.5   Heat   of   formationThe standard enthalpy of   formation of   naphthalene, i.e. the enthalpy change   at 298   K   and   101 kPa   for   the   hypothetical   reaction   (6)   is   obtained   using   Hess's   Law,   from   ΔCH298    and   the   enthalpies   of   formation   of   CO2   (g) (-393.5 kJ   mol-1) and   H2O (l)   (-285.8 kJ   mol-1).
10C (graphite) + 4H2   (g) → C   10H8(s)                                                                                                                                        (9)
2.6   Delocalisation   energyThe delocalisation energy is the difference   between the enthalpy of atomisation evaluated from   the   enthalpy   of   formation,   and   the   enthalpy   of   atomisation   calculated   from   bond   energies   assuming 6 C-C   single bonds,   5 C=C   double bonds,   and   8   C-H bonds.   The   following   data   for   enthalpies   of   formation   of   gaseous   atoms, and   bond   energies   are   required:
1/2 H2(g) → H (g)                ΔfH   = 218.0 kJ mol-1
C (graphite) → C (g)                     ΔfH   =   715.0 kJ   mol-1
bond             ΔH   / kJ   mol-1
C-H                            416.3
C-C                              347
C=C                              611
The   enthalpy   of   sublimation   of naphthalene   at   298   K   is   72.5   kJ   mol-1.   The   delocalisation   energy   calculation   is   illustrated   below   for   the   case   of   benzene.Assuming a   structure of 6 C-H bonds, 3   C-C   bonds   and   3   C=C   bonds,   the   estimated   enthalpy   of   atomisation i.e. the enthalpy change for the reaction is 6×416.3 + 3   ×347   +   3×611   =   5372   kJ   mol-1.
C6H6(g) → 6C (g) +   6H   (g)                                                                                                                                                      (10)


The “experimental” value is obtained from
C6H6(l) → 6C (graphite) + 3H2   (g)                                       代 写CHEM252 Experiment 1 Bomb Calorimetry 2023Python
代做程序编程语言 ∆H   = -∆fH   =   -49 kJ mol-1
C6H6(g) → C6H6(l)                                                                                                             ∆H   = -∆vapH   = -33.8 kJ   mol-1
6C (graphite) →    6C (g)                                                                                                 ∆H   = 4290   kJ   mol-1
3H2   (g) → 6H (g)                                                                                                                                  ∆H   =   1308   kJ   mol-1
C6H6(g) → 6C (g) + 6H   (g)                                                                               ∆H   = 5515 kJ mol-1The   delocalisation   energy   (ΔdelocE)   is   therefore   5515   -   5372   =   143   kJ   mol-1,   i.e.   the benzene   molecule   is   143 kJ   mol-1   more   stable than   it would be   if it   had   the   Kekulé   alternating   single   and double bond structure.
3. Experimental   ProcedureThe following procedure is used for both   calibration   (using   benzoic   acid)   and   test   (using   naphthalene) runs. At least two calibration runs and at least two test runs should   be completed   during   this   experiment, however, more   maybe   completed   if   time   permits.
3.1 Sample   preparationPlace approximately, but no more than 0.9 g   of   benzoic   acid   (or   0.6   g   of   naphthalene)   in   the   pellet press.   This   sample   size is   sufficient to produce   a temperature   rise   of a   few   K.      Push   the   lever down firmly to form. a dense pellet. To remove the pellet from the press, lift the lever and   turn the bottom plate over, revealing a cavity. Press the lever down   again   and   the pellet   should   be expelled into the cavity. Precisely weigh and   record the   mass   of   the   pellet.You   can   change   the   base   level   of   the   press   by   screwing/unscrewing   it   by   hand,   which   will   be necessary to   do   throughout   the   experiment   to   make   sure   the   pellet   die   is   high/low   enough   to   fully press your pellet   (if   you   cannot get your pellet to   stay   solid   after pressing,   make   sure   the base is high   enough).
3.2   Bomb   loadingWith   the   bomb   head   in   its   holder,   place   the   precisely   weighed   pellet   in   the   metal   combustion cup.   Cut   a   10-12   cm   length   of fuse   wire   (record   the   length   used)   and   thread   it   through   the   eyelets on the electrodes that are revealed when the metal hoods are raised.   Secure the wire on   the electrical contacts by pulling down the metal hood over the connection. Form. a loop in the   middle of   the taught wire which presses against the top of   the sample pellet, refer figures   1 and   2.   
Figure   2:   Attachment   of   the fuse   wire.   The   caps   on   the   electrodes   ensure   good   electrical   contact.   
Figure   3: Schematic   of   the   bomb   head. Note   positioning   of   the   fuse   wire,   touching   the   sample but not the   cup.The main reason   your bomb may fail to fire later is because   your   wire   was not   in sufficient   contact   with   the   pellet   during   this   step,   or   the   pellet   shifted   during   the   handling   of the   bomb   and is no longer in   contact   with   the   wire.   So,   make   sure   to   take   extra   care   during   this step and later when   moving the   bomb.Add   approximately   1 mL of   deionised water into the bottom   of   the bomb   to   absorb   any   acid formed   (have   a think   about what this   acid might   be).   Ensure   that   the   gas   relief   valve   is   open and fit the bomb head into the cylinder, taking   care   not   to   disturb   the   sample.   Close   the   bomb   by screwing the retaining ring down and tightening by hand as tight as possible.At this point   you must have   your demonstrator or Dr   Ware sign off   the safety sheet before   you   can   proceed.   This   is   to   ensure   the   retaining   ring   is   as   tight   as   possible.   Ensure   the   safety sheet is fixed into your lab   notebook.After    you   have   been    signed    off,    close    the    gas    relief   valve    (finger    tight    only    –    do    not   overtighten,   as   this   will   ruin   the   seal   over   time)   and   then   transfer,   using   the   bomb   lifting   tongs, to the bench with the oxygen cylinder (try keep   the   bomb   as   level   as   possible   to   ensure   the wire and pellet stay connected). Attach the slip   connector to the   oxygen   filling tube   on   the top   of   the   bomb.   Pressurise   the   bomb   to   30   atmospheres   (note   that   if   your   gas   relief   value   is not fully closed, you can hear and feel a large release of   gas from the valve, and this will result   in   a   failed   pressurisation   which   you   will   then   have   to   undergo   again).   After   pressurisation,   remove the filling tube and return the pressurised bomb to the bench with your calorimeter. Do   not open the gas relief   valve after you have   successfully pressurised   your   bomb.
3.3 Calorimeter   preparationMeasure   2000   mL   of   deionised   water   and   pour   it   into   the   stainless-steel   bucket   inside   the   calorimeter. Note   that   it   is   assumed   in   the   calculations   below   that   a   constant   volume   of   water was   used   in   the   calorimeter bucket,   for   all   calibration   and   test   runs.   Care   must   be   taken   to   ensure   that    minimal    water    is    lost    when    transferring    the    bomb    into    and    out    of    the   calorimeter (consider methods to reduce water loss when removing or placing the bomb).Using the bomb lifting tongs,   place the bomb in the water over the circular protuberance in the   bottom of   the   bucket. The   bomb should   be completely   immersed: if   it is   not, there is insufficient   water   in   the   bucket.   Check   that   there   are   no   bubbles   coming   from   the   bomb   pressure   release valve   as this would indicate   an   oxygen leak   (note   that   bubbles   may   emerge   from   holes   in   the   retaining ring due to trapped air, but this is not an   issue).At this point   you must have   your demonstrator or Dr   Ware sign off   the safety sheet before   you   can   proceed.   This   is   to   ensure   there   are   there   are   no   oxygen   leaks   from   the   bomb   before the reaction.If there   are   no   leaks   and   you   have   been   signed   off,   connect   the   two   electrical   leads   to   the   electrode terminals on the bomb head (you may use a multimeter to test the electrical   contacts   of   your bomb electrode terminals before connecting the leads if   you are worried that your wire   is   not   secured   fully).       Fit   the   calorimeter   lid   with   the   diode   thermometer   probe   and   stirrer,   making sure the arrows on the calorimeter lid and stirrer motor line up. Connect   a rubber band   to the   stirrer motor   and turn it   on by turning   the   dial   in   the   direction   of   the   arrow.   Check   that   the   stirrer rotates   freely.   Place the   Perspex   enclosure   over the   calorimeter with   wires   passing   through   the   cut-outs   on   the   back   bottom   sides   of   the   shield.
The   accuracy   of the   experiment   depends   heavily   on   accurate   determination   of ∆   T,   which   is   measured with a diode thermometer in conjunction with a data   logger   and   PC.
3.4 Temperature change measurementsStart the recording   and run the   stirrer to   establish thermal   equilibrium   (up   to   about   3   minutes   should   be   sufficient).   Refer   to   the   instructions   provided   for   use   of the   computer   acquisition   software    for    recording      temperature      rises,      or      consult      a      demonstrator      or      the      Laboratory   Technician.    Once readings have been taken for at least 3 minutes,   ignite the bomb by holding   down the ignition   button for 5-10 sec   (holding down this   button completes a circuit which heats   up the fuse wire. If   the button is not held down for   long   enough, the   fuse wire will   not   heat   up   enough to   ignite the pellet.)   The temperature will   quicky   rise,   and   then   level   out   and   become   linear again. Continue to take readings for at least   5 minutes after   the   temperature   has   become   linear.   You   will   be   using   the   linear   slopes   measured   from   before   and   after   firing   to   analyse   your data, so it is important to record these linear   sections   for reasonable   amounts   of   time.If your temperature   readings   have   still   not   changed   a   minute   after   you   have   stopped   holding   down the ignition button, attempt to use the ignition button again. If   your bomb has still   failed   to fire after your second ignition attempt, ask your demonstrator   for   assistance. You   may need   to dismantle your pressurised bomb and attempt the whole set up again.
Before   collecting   data   for   your next   measurement,   make   sure   to   export   and   reset   the   already   collected data.
3.5 Opening   the   bombCarefully   remove   the Perspex shield.   Turn off   the motor,   remove   the rubber   band and carefully   remove the calorimeter lid and place   it back   on   its   stand.   Disconnect   the   electrical   leads   from   the bomb and lift the bomb out of   the bucket with the bomb lifting tongs. Pour any water from   the   top   of the   bomb   back   into   the   bucket   (Note:   Before   firing,   it   was   important   to   keep   the   bomb   as   level   as possible to   ensure the wire   and pellet   stayed   connected.   However   now,   it   is   important to return as much water as   possible   to   the   bucket,   which   you   can   do   by   fully   lifting   the bomb out of   the bucket and then tipping it on its side while holding it with the tongs.) After you have recovered as much water as you can, return the bomb to the bench and proceed to dry   the outside with a towel.Release   the   pressure   in   the   bomb   by   slowly   opening   the   gas   relief   valve   (venting   should   take longer   than   one   minute).   Unscrew   the   bomb   head   retaining   ring   after   the   pressure   has   been   released.Prepare   to   remove   the   bomb   head   by holding   the   bomb   body   flat   and   steady with   one   hand.   With your other hand, pinch the electrode terminals between your thumb and index   finger.   To   remove the head, gently rock it side to   side using the hand that   is   holding   the   terminals,   while keeping the body steady with your other hand. When the head is removed, return it to its stand.   Inspect   the   bomb   for   soot   or   other   evidence   of incomplete   combustion:   if such   evidence   is   found, the   results   are   unreliable, and   the   experiment   should   be   repeated.   Record   the   length   of any   residual   fuse   wire.   Subtract   this   length   from   the   initial   length   to   give   the   length   of fuse   burned.Clean   out   the   body   of the   bomb   with   deionised   water   and   dry.   The    surfaces   of the   bomb   affected must be kept   scrupulously clean   and   every precaution taken   to   avoid blemishing   and   damaging them (as this could result in the bomb becoming unusable). Always place the bomb   head on its stand and the bomb body on   a towel when not   in use.
Results
Export your temperature vs. time results   as   .CSV   files.   Email   these   files   to   yourself and your   partner to be used in your plot to find ∆T.
4.   ReportA   Laboratory Report   template   for this   experiment   (Experiment    1)   is   available   as   a   Word   file   through   Canvas.   Please   complete   all   sections   of   the   template   then   convert   your   resulting   Laboratory   Report   into   a   PDF   file   before   submission   through   Canvas.   Much   of the   report   involves   rearranging   equations,    so   double   check   your   working   and   make    sure   to   include   appropriate units for your answers and during your calculations.
   
   



         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
